# algolia

Algolia - the Ruby gem for the Algolia Monitoring API

The Monitoring API lets you check the status and performance of your Algolia
infrastructure.

> **Note**: The Monitoring API is available on [Premium
plans](https://www.algolia.com/pricing/) and plans including the Enterprise
add-on.


This SDK is automatically generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project:

- API version: 1.0.0
- Package version: 1.0.0
- Build package: com.algolia.codegen.AlgoliaRubyGenerator

## Installation

### Build a gem

To build the Ruby code into a gem:

```shell
gem build algolia.gemspec
```

Then either install the gem locally:

```shell
gem install ./algolia-1.0.0.gem
```

(for development, run `gem install --dev ./algolia-1.0.0.gem` to install the development dependencies)

or publish the gem to a gem hosting service, e.g. [RubyGems](https://rubygems.org/).

Finally add this to the Gemfile:

    gem 'algolia', '~> 1.0.0'

### Install from Git

If the Ruby gem is hosted at a git repository: https://github.com/algolia/algoliasearch-client-ruby, then add the following in the Gemfile:

    gem 'algolia', :git => 'https://github.com/algolia/algoliasearch-client-ruby.git'

### Include the Ruby code directly

Include the Ruby code directly using `-I` as follows:

```shell
ruby -Ilib script.rb
```

## Getting Started

Please follow the [installation](#installation) procedure and then run the following code:

```ruby
# Load the gem
require 'algolia'

api_instance = Algolia::MonitoringClient.new
path = '/keys' # String | Path of the endpoint, anything after \"/1\" must be specified.
opts = {
  parameters: { key: 3.56} # Hash<String, Object> | Query parameters to apply to the current query.
}

begin
  #Send requests to the Algolia REST API.
  result = api_instance.del(path, opts)
  p result
rescue Algolia::ApiError => e
  puts "Exception when calling MonitoringClient->del: #{e}"
end

```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *https://status.algolia.com*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**del**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#del) | **DELETE** /1{path} | Send requests to the Algolia REST API.
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**get**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#get) | **GET** /1{path} | Send requests to the Algolia REST API.
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**get_cluster_incidents**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#get_cluster_incidents) | **GET** /1/incidents/{clusters} | List incidents for selected clusters.
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**get_cluster_status**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#get_cluster_status) | **GET** /1/status/{clusters} | List statuses of selected clusters.
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**get_incidents**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#get_incidents) | **GET** /1/incidents | List incidents.
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**get_indexing_time**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#get_indexing_time) | **GET** /1/indexing/{clusters} | Get indexing times.
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**get_inventory**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#get_inventory) | **GET** /1/inventory/servers | List servers.
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**get_latency**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#get_latency) | **GET** /1/latency/{clusters} | Get search latency times.
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**get_metrics**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#get_metrics) | **GET** /1/infrastructure/{metric}/period/{period} | Get metrics for a given period.
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**get_reachability**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#get_reachability) | **GET** /1/reachability/{clusters}/probes | Test the reachability of clusters.
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**get_status**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#get_status) | **GET** /1/status | List cluster statuses.
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**post**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#post) | **POST** /1{path} | Send requests to the Algolia REST API.
*Algolia::MonitoringClient* | [**put**](docs/MonitoringClient.md#put) | **PUT** /1{path} | Send requests to the Algolia REST API.


## Documentation for Models

 - [Algolia::ErrorBase](docs/ErrorBase.md)
 - [Algolia::GetInventory403Response](docs/GetInventory403Response.md)
 - [Algolia::Incident](docs/Incident.md)
 - [Algolia::IncidentsInner](docs/IncidentsInner.md)
 - [Algolia::IncidentsResponse](docs/IncidentsResponse.md)
 - [Algolia::IndexingTimeResponse](docs/IndexingTimeResponse.md)
 - [Algolia::IndexingTimeResponseMetrics](docs/IndexingTimeResponseMetrics.md)
 - [Algolia::InfrastructureResponse](docs/InfrastructureResponse.md)
 - [Algolia::InfrastructureResponseMetrics](docs/InfrastructureResponseMetrics.md)
 - [Algolia::InventoryResponse](docs/InventoryResponse.md)
 - [Algolia::LatencyResponse](docs/LatencyResponse.md)
 - [Algolia::LatencyResponseMetrics](docs/LatencyResponseMetrics.md)
 - [Algolia::Metric](docs/Metric.md)
 - [Algolia::Period](docs/Period.md)
 - [Algolia::ProbesMetric](docs/ProbesMetric.md)
 - [Algolia::Region](docs/Region.md)
 - [Algolia::Server](docs/Server.md)
 - [Algolia::ServerStatus](docs/ServerStatus.md)
 - [Algolia::Status](docs/Status.md)
 - [Algolia::StatusResponse](docs/StatusResponse.md)
 - [Algolia::TimeInner](docs/TimeInner.md)
 - [Algolia::Type](docs/Type.md)


## Documentation for Authorization


Authentication schemes defined for the API:
### appId


- **Type**: API key
- **API key parameter name**: X-Algolia-Application-Id
- **Location**: HTTP header

### apiKey


- **Type**: API key
- **API key parameter name**: X-Algolia-API-Key
- **Location**: HTTP header

